Talk to Lebanese American University (2025 - May 14, 2025) (Other)
May 14, 2025: What is Feminist Artificial Intelligence: A talk on growing the feminist AI research network’s MENA Hub.

Co-organized by the Arab Institute for Women, the Center for Innovative Learning, and the Department of Communications, Mobility and Identity,The Lebanese American University, the webinar featured a talk by myself. In this webinar, I presented the principles and politics that inform feminist Artificial Intelligence and discussed the work being done to promote the inclusive development of AI technologies in the region. The session covered the interdisciplinary aims and activities of the Feminist AI Research (fr) network’s MENA research hub, established for investigating the role of digital technologies and innovation in promoting inclusive development across Egypt, the Arab World, and Africa. The recording has been uploaded to A2K4D’s YouTube channel and the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI’s website and YouTube channel.

Video : https://youtu.be/U5dSlgsdPD4?t=10

Al Arabiya TV. (2025)  (Other)
The first interview conducted with Dr. Nagla Rizk, Founding Director of A2K4D and the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI, sheds light on the opportunities and challenges presented by AI in the MENA region. This conversation comes hand-in-hand with the on-going Paris Peace Forum's 2025 AI Action Summit, where the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI has been selected as one of the top 50 projects. This recognition comes with a competitive pool of 770 applicants across 111 countries. The interview has also been published on the Observatory’s YouTube channel and website. Rizk was also featured in an interview on Al Arabiya TV during the ‘’AI Action Summit’’ held in Paris.The second interview featured Nagham ElHoussamy, Associate Director for Research Middle East and North Africa at the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI, who also contributed key interventions on the major trends in the AI landscape in the MENA region. The interview has also been published on the Observatory’s YouTube channel and website.
Video : https://youtu.be/nspp99x4fls?t=19

"The impact of AI in the MENA Region on France 24."  (Other)
A2K4D's Director, Dr. Nagla Rizk, on the impact of AI in the MENA Region on France 24
Video : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEdWltC6X_g

Paris Peace Forum, (October 2025)  (Other)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hkeco_f1KjE

"Le Monde article on Education and AI Equity," Newspaper. (October 2025)  (Other)

This was during the “Forging the Future: A Dialogue on Beneficial AI for Children, Starting with Principles” hosted by the International Research-driven Alliance for AI Serving Every Child) (IRaise) in Paris.

Article link: https://www.lemonde.fr/idees/article/2025/10/29/l-ia-pourrait-representer-un-puissant-levier-pour-reduire-les-inegalites-entre-differents-milieux-socioculturels_6650132_3232.html

Participating in the AI Action Summit, Paris Summit for Action on Artificial Intelligence, Paris. February 10, 2025. (Our work)

The A2K4D team attended, on February 10 & 11, 2025, the AI Action Summit as part of the Paris Summit for Action on Artificial Intelligence to present the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI as one of the 50 innovative projects selected by the Forum following its Call for AI Projects. I presented the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI as a regional hub for responsible AI research, underlining its focus on knowledge translation through various formats, influencing policy by engaging with policymakers, and building networks with diverse stakeholders, including researchers, policymakers, civil society organizations, businesses, journalists, local communities, students, and international entities, to amplify local voices, especially those of women and marginalized groups. I also highlighted the observatory’s achievements including hosting successful webinars, publishing resources in Arabic & English (research papers, educational material, datasets), creating a dynamic video series, and participating in conferences on AI governance. The Observatory emphasizes feminist AI & platform work and aims to foster a just MENA AI landscape aligned with local realities.

"Round Table Discussion on AI Regulations and Governance," Roundtable on a proposed AI Bill for Egypt, AUC New Cairo Campus, Egypt. January 14, 2025.  Our work
On January 14th, A2K4D, the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI hosted the first high-level roundtable discussion on Egypt’s draft AI Bill, led by Sahar Al Bazar, MP, Deputy Chair of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Egyptian Parliament. The roundtable brought together a group of leaders from the tech sector, multinational corporations, local entrepreneurs, civil society and academia to explore key themes surrounding AI such as balancing innovation with risk mitigation, strengthening data governance frameworks, and defining accountability for AI-driven decisions. The roundtable featured a diverse panel of experts, each offering valuable insights on the proposed bill, identifying key areas that need attention and offering recommendations. The discussion tackled the bill’s underlying philosophy, principles, and objectives, allowing participants to raise concerns and suggest solutions. Various topics were discussed including the definition of AI, possible relevant stakeholders and their respective responsibilities to regulate AI, as well as data protection and privacy, intellectual property rights, liability, and the role of regulatory authorities.


"The Role of Research in Impacting Policy and Practice: AI, the Future of Work, and Development in the MENA Region," A2K4D Fifteenth Anniversary Workshop, AUC's Tahrir Campus in the Oriental Hall. February 3, 2025. Our work
On the 3rd of February, 2025, A2K4D held its Fifteenth Anniversary Workshop titled “The Role of Research in Impacting Policy and Practice: AI, the Future of Work, and Development in the MENA Region” at AUC's Tahrir Campus in the Oriental Hall. Invitees included A2K4D’s global community of researchers, academics, civil society, international organizations, and entrepreneurs. The roundtable discussion took place over two sessions where participants shared their insights on the latest developments in the field of AI and sustainable development, and their recommendations for A2K4D’s future research and advocacy in the field. The workshop aimed to continue to work towards bringing the voice of the MENA region to global debates on issues related to the governance of data and artificial intelligence, new forms of work, social justice, and the digital economy, all from a developmental perspective.


AI Readiness Assessment Methodology by UNESCO and MCIT: UNESCO National Stakeholder Consultation on Ethics of AI: Assessing AI Readiness in Egypt. February 16, 2025.  (Other)
I attended Egypt’s National Stakeholder Consultation on Ethics of AI, between the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (MCIT), UNESCO and the European Union. The discussion was around readiness assessment, AI principles, ecosystem, risks, ethics, responsible AI and more.

"Organized by Dr Nagla Rizk : Extending Social Protection to Platform Workers: Applications in Egypt.," Lecture by Ghada Barsoum on Platform workers in Egypt. February 25, 2025. (our work)
The Observatory hosted a webinar on “Extending Social Protection to Platform Workers: Applications in Egypt.” The webinar comes as part of the center’s project on “New Work, Data, and Inclusion in the Digital Economy: A MENA Perspective” in partnership with regional research partners and support from Ford Foundation, building on earlier work within the Fairwork project with Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.


ILO Global Alliance on Social Justice - In person event -in cooperation with the Ministry of Labor. March 6, 2025.  (Other)
I joined the discussion as a panelist on the Platform Economy in Egypt.


Gender and the Future of Work: Pathways for Inclusive Economic Transformation’ hosted by the cooperation between the Economic Research Forum (ERF) and UNDP in the Arab States region, Online. March 10, 2025.  (Other)

Within the context of ERF and UNDP Arab States cooperation under “Research on Gender and the Future of Work in the Arab States region” project, this virtual workshop aims to present and discuss key findings from six research studies focusing on gender and the future of work in the Arab States region. I contributed as a commentator on the paper, “Gender Dynamics in the Digital Economy: Opportunities and Barriers to Women’s Employment in the Arab Region” and provided critical insights on the presented research.


Gender Rights in AI Governance: Insights from the Global Index on Responsible AI. March 11, 2025. ( (Other)
On the 11th of March 2025, I was invited as a panellist speaker to the online webinar ‘’Gender Rights in AI Governance: Insights from the Global Index on Responsible AI,’’ organised by the Global Center on AI Governance. The session explored global commitments and policies addressing AI-driven gender disparities. The event reflected on the findings of the Global Index on Responsible AI in relation to gender equality, with a particular focus on the experiences of countries across the Majority World. As a respondent, I provided a response to the Gender Equality report of the Global Index on Responsible AI project. Additionally, I engaged in a moderated discussion, responding to key findings from the Global Index and sharing practical solutions for advancing gender equality in AI. The session concluded with a Q&A, where I offered her expertise to policymakers, researchers, and industry leaders.


Organized by Dr Nagla Rizk : AI for Beginners''/ Practical Session: AI for the Cairo Community, by MENA Observatory Consultant Marwa Soudi - Kasr El Dobara Evangelical Church (KDEC). April 6, 2025. Our work
Kasr El-Dobara Evangelical Church (KDEC) hosted an event that examined both the opportunities and risks associated with Artificial Intelligence (AI). The event was held as part of the church’s ongoing “Khatwa” initiative, which offers educational sessions designed to support individuals in making well-informed decisions across different aspects of life. The session, led by Marwa Soudi, delivered a comprehensive introduction to AI, covering its core concepts, potential benefits, and the challenges and risks it presents.


Gender and Work: Perspectives from the Middle East and Africa. April 9, 2025. Our work
As part of the Collaborative Webinar Series between MENA & African Observatories on Responsible AI, a third webinar was organized on the 9th of April 2025 titled “AI, Gender and Work: Perspectives from the Middle East and Africa.” The webinar examined the transformative impact of artificial intelligence on the future of work in the two regions, highlighting both the opportunities for economic growth and innovation and the risks posed by automation to labor markets. Discussions focused on the gender aspect of these changes, including the digital divide, access, and skills gaps, and the importance of education, reskilling, and upskilling to ensure workforce readiness. The session emphasized the need for inclusive and gender-responsive approaches to AI adoption to ensure that women and marginalized groups are not left behind in the evolving AI-driven economy.


"How prepared are MENA countries for the digital transformation and decarbonization?," Economic reform, technology and the future of work in the MENA region’ The Royal Institute of International Affairs Chatham House. April 14, 2025. Other
I was invited to speak in a session titled: ‘How prepared are MENA countries for the digital transformation and decarbonization?’
The session offered a general assessment of how AI, new technologies and decarbonization are transforming different MENA states and their economies. The session examined the readiness of regional and national institutions (fiscal authorities, regulators, etc.) in facilitating and supporting a just and inclusive transition. I was joined by the following speakers; Mohammed Jamal, Managing Director of Research, KAPITA Business Hub and Marwa Soudi, Chief Innovation Officer and Cofounder, Ideasgym.


"Towards a toolkit for Policy and Practice for responsible AI in Egypt," Responsible AI in Egypt: Multi-Stakeholder Roundtable. May 4, 2025.
Our work
The “Multistakeholder Meeting on Responsible AI in Egypt” was held on May 4th 2025 as part of a series of information sessions organized by the MENA Observatory. The roundtable brought together several different stakeholders to explore and develop a collective understanding of responsible AI in Egypt, share existing responsible AI practices within their businesses, and identify priority pillars to develop a set of guidelines to further implement responsible AI for policy and practice . A policy brief titled “Advancing Responsible AI in Egypt: A Multistakeholder Approach for Policy, People, and Practice” was produced by the Observatory team following this meeting. The policy brief will be shared with representatives from Egypt’s Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (MCIT) in Q1 2026.

AI in Research Management: Ethical implications and responsible solutions. May 18, 2025. Other
I participated in a webinar titled “AI in Research Management: Ethical Implications and Responsible Solutions” as part of the Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) Working Group sessions during the Global Research Council’s (GRC) Annual Meeting. In my presentation, I underscored AI’s dual role: while it holds significant promise for advancing inclusive development and supporting the Sustainable Development Goals, it also poses serious risks related to inequality, exclusion, and bias.


The IPX Summit at Harvard Law School. June 11, 2025. Other
I participated at the IPX Summit at Harvard Law School organized by Professors Willam (Terry) Fisher & Ruth Okediju. I spoke about her experience teaching CopyrightX for 10 years at the Department of Economics at AUC Onsi Sawiris School of Business. I also provided a chronology of my teaching and participation in CopyrightX Summits (2015-2025), anecdotes, challenges, lessons learned & student feedback. Among issues presented & discussed at the Summit:The Music Industry in the age of AI, lessons learned from the Napster experience, The New WIPO IP Treaties, Care Ethics, Feminism & copyright, Stem cells, organoids, AI & IP & a lot about Global Perspectives on Copyright & AI.


Arranged by Dr Nagla Rizk : AI for Good Summit. July 8, 2025. Other
The MENA Observatory on Responsible AI was represented by Maha Bali, Professor of Practice at the Center for Learning and Teaching at The American University in Cairo and Khadiga Hassan, our Research Associate at Access to Knowledge for Development Center attended the AI for Good Summit 8 - 11 July 2025 in Geneva on my behalf.


AI Business Models for Application in Business. September 8, 2025. (Our work)
A webinar was implemented by GIZ Egypt on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) in partnership with MENA Observatory on Responsible AI, Access to Knowledge for Development Center at the American University in Cairo and Sustainability and AI Business Action Centre, supported by the University of Sussex. The webinar titled “AI Business Models for Application in Business”, the Egyptian business community was provided with a comprehensive overview to the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in businesses, including foundational and proprietary AI models that could be applied in businesses as well as practical strategies to apply AI for business outcomes like productivity, efficiency, and value. The webinar also looked at ethical considerations essential to AI deployment, including fairness and accountability.


Meta’s Llama Design Drive Pitchathon. September 30, 2025. (Other)
I served as a judge at Meta’s Llama Design Drive Pitchathon during the Techne Summit in Cairo on September 30, 2025, where she evaluated AI-driven startup pitches and provided guidance to founders. She assessed innovation, scalability, technical execution, and market impact, helping to identify the most transformative Llama-powered solutions emerging from the MENA region.


AI Ethics in Policy: Perspectives from MENA. October 22, 2025. (Our work)
The Observatory in collaboration with the Information for All Programme  (IFAP) Working Group on Information Ethics, UNESCO organized a regional seminar dedicated to advancing ethical AI in policymaking across the MENA region. The webinar examined the evolving landscape of AI ethics and policy in the MENA region, emphasizing the need to align global ethical principles with local legal frameworks, cultural norms, and developmental priorities while keeping human rights, accountability, and human oversight at the center of AI governance. Through regional case studies (Egypt, Qatar, Lebanon, and Morocco,) and institutional perspectives, speakers highlighted both progress and persistent gaps, such as the dominance of soft law, the lag of regulation behind technological advancement, and the challenge of translating international guidelines into context-specific, inclusive, and sustainable national practices.


Forging the Future: A Dialogue on Beneficial AI for Children, Starting with Principles. October 29, 2025. (Other)
(Session co-organized with everyone.ai) This roundtable presented and built upon a set of Design Principles co-developed by industry leaders, researchers, and youth advocates during the iRAISE Lab in mid-October. Centered on the foundational belief that AI should not manipulate children, these principles address critical concerns in adolescent-AI interaction-particularly sycophancy, anthropomorphism, and relational reliance. Together, we examined how parasocial interactions with AI can shape teens' emotional and cognitive development, and explore concrete ways to ensure these technologies do not lead to manipulation or dependency. The goal of this working session was align design with adolescent rights and wellbeing, while fostering accountability and integrity in the AI systems shaping their daily lives.


"New Coalitions for Peace, People and the Planet," Paris Peace Forum 2025. October 29, 2025. (Other)
Along with the A2K4D Associate Director for Research, we attended and represented the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI at the Paris Peace Forum 2025. Global conflict, climate crises, rapid AI advancement, and cuts to development aid are straining international cooperation at a time when it is most needed. The Paris Peace Forum 2025 brought together global leaders from government, civil society, business, and academia to build new coalitions and advance solutions for peace, people, and the planet.


Responsible Artificial Intelligence and Civil Society Roundtable. November 11, 2025. (Our work)
On November 11th 2025, the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI hosted the “Responsible Artificial Intelligence and Civil Society Roundtable.” A dialogue dedicated to exploring the opportunities and challenges surrounding the use of AI within Egyptian civil society organizations (CSOs). The roundtable aimed to raise awareness about responsible AI and foster collaboration between policy and community stakeholders, ensuring that AI development and deployment are inclusive, ethical, and aligned with societal needs.
As an outcome of the Civil Society Roundtable, The MENA Observatory on Responsible AI is collaborating with the Civil Society Support Fund, under the Ministry of Social Solidarity in Egypt, on their annual Sociathon event which is a hackathon to solve digital and technological challenges civil society organizations face.

META AI Summit London. November 17, 2025. (Other)
I attended the MENA Policy Summit 2025 that took place in London, UK, from November 17th to 18th. This summit was an important gathering of policy stakeholders shaping the future of regulation, innovation, and integrity in the MENA region. The summit focused on critical issues including AI governance, data privacy, content risks and safety, and the adoption of AI technologies. It brought together a diverse group of stakeholders from industry bodies, academia, civil society organizations, digital rights groups, and think tanks.

"Digital labor in the Middle East and Africa: Emerging trends, challenges, and opportunities," International Network on Digital Labor - Middle East and Africa  (INDL MEA-2). November 25, 2025. (Our work)
The MENA Observatory, in partnership with the International Network on Digital Labor (INDL), and the Université d’Angers, hosted the second edition of the International Network on Digital Labor – Middle East and Africa (INDL-MEA 2 2025) Conference. The event took place online on the 25th and 26th of November 2025, and was organized in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Digital Platform Labor (DiPLab) research program. On Day 2 of the Conference, Dr. Nagla Rizk presented a keynote titled “Women, AI and Work in the ME & Africa: Feminist Perspectives from the MENA Observatory.” The talk explored how AI is impacting women’s work in the Middle East and Africa, noting the opportunities and examining the risks, advocating for the adoption of a feminist lens to harness the transformative power of Feminist AI.

Feminist Roundtable: Just Transition (FES Egypt). December 6, 2025. (Other)
I participated in a roundtable hosted by Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES) Egypt to discuss the concept of a just transition. The space was dedicated to bringing together diverse feminists for rich dialogues, critical analyses, and relationship building.


UN Working Group on discrimination against women & girls regional consultation on AI & gender equality - Regional Consultation. December 16, 2025. ( Other)
I was invited to participate in a virtual regional consultation on the impact of digital technologies and artificial intelligence (AI) on gender equality in the Middle East and North, Central and West Africa regions.


Utilising AI and ML to Optimise Humanitarian Aid Performance Event by Egyptian Food Bank. December 18, 2025. ( Other)
I participated as a speaker in a webinar hosted by the Egyptian Food Bank, titled “Utilising AI and ML to Optimise Humanitarian Aid Performance
Event by Egyptian Food Bank.” The topics covered highlighted an important shift: that AI in humanitarian aid is not about technology adoption, but about governance, dignity, and human outcomes. When aligned with SDGs, particularly poverty, hunger, and health, AI can help move humanitarian systems from reactive response to anticipatory and inclusive action. I emphasized the evolving role of AI and its potential across industries and highlighted the role contributed by the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI in achieving and advocating for responsible and ethical AI use.


AI India Impact Summit 2026 event in Cairo. December 23, 2025. (Other)
I was invited as a panelist at the India AI Impact Summit 2026–Cairo Outreach event, convened by the Embassy of India in Cairo. The summit brought together leading voices from India and Egypt to advance discussions on human-centric, forward-looking AI, fostering cross-country collaboration and knowledge exchange.

Talk:March 2nd, 2026: 'AI and Economic Development Pathways in Africa'. Global Center on AI Governance. (Other)

In this talk Dr Nagla described the key concepts underpinning artificial intelligence and its economic relevance. She also identified the main channels through which AI contributes to productivity and innovation and explained how AI functions as a general-purpose technology in global economic systems. Finally, Dr Rizk analyzed how economic theories of technological change can inform AI policy choices in Africa.


Report: Toward AI Governance Alignment in Africa, Middle East, and Türkiye (AMET) Region (Our work)
Authors: Emma Ruttkamp-Bloem, Fola Adeleke, Jake Effoduh, Kebene Wodajo, Prof Nagla Rizk, Dr. Olubayo Adekanmbi, Rachel Adams, Rami Alkarmi, Seani Rananga, Seydina Ndiaye, Shikoh Gitau and Tami Koroye
Link to the Global Center article: https://www.globalcenter.ai/research/toward-ai-governance-alignment-in-africa-middle-east-and-tuerkiye-amet-region

Youtube link: Navigating AI Governance in Africa, the Middle East, & Turkey: Is Harmonization Possible?
The analysis identifies four main approaches shaping national AI strategies: security-driven, innovation-led, rights-based and developmental. These reflect different priorities, capacities and risk perceptions, leading to evolving regional regulatory groupings influenced by political, economic and geopolitical factors.
Across regions, common challenges include data protection, interoperability, accountability and sector-specific regulation, alongside constraints such as limited capacity and growing concerns over sovereignty and cloud infrastructure concentration.
The report translates these dynamics into practical guidance, outlining ways to balance innovation with safety, manage cross-border data and strengthen digital infrastructure. It emphasises flexible alignment, standards-based cooperation and shared mechanisms to reduce fragmentation.
Overall, the framework offers a clear lens for understanding global AI regulation, highlighting the drivers of convergence and divergence and the key strategic considerations for policymakers and technology firms.

February 9th, 2026."What is Feminist Artificial Intelligence? Perspectives from the Middle East and North Africa". Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics Seminar Series in Spring 2026. Other https://bioethics.jhu.edu/events/seminar-series-virtual-talk-with-nagla-rizk-phd/

Video :  https://youtu.be/Agd7ETNsodA

This talk explored with the audience the meaning and need for a feminist lens in addressing issues related to Artificial Intelligence and Inclusion. I included examples including some from her work within the Middle East and North Africa Observatory on Responsible AI at the Access to Knowledge for Development Center, the American University in Cairo Onsi Sawiris School of Business.

The talk is based on my research and teaching a course titled: "Feminist AI, Technology, Gender and Development"  at the American University in Cairo's Department of Economics.

Coming Soon - Event: Al Khwarizmi AI Event, 27th April, 2026  (Our work)

Al-Khwarizmi Initiative for Artificial Intelligence, in collaboration with the American University in Cairo’s Executive Education Program at the School of Global Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP Exec Ed), and the MENA Observatory on Responsible AI housed at the Access to Knowledge for Development Center (A2K4D), is holding the Cairo Convening, a closed one-day discussion on the current state of artificial intelligence (AI) in Egypt. The discussion will cover the uses of AI, social impacts, public policies, legal and regulatory frameworks, public literacy, and future prospects. The event will be held on Monday 27 April, 2026 at Oriental Hall, AUC Tahrir Campus, Cairo.